Documentation for Reloop Mixage MK1, MK2, Controller Edition mappings for Mixxx 2.4 (#592)
mixxxdj/manual: source/hardware/controllers/reloop_mixage.rst

page <productpage_url_>`_.

The microphone :hwlabel:`🎤` input can be set to different modes. To make it usable in Mixxx, set it to **SW**. The :hwlabel:`MASTER` and :hwlabel:`PHONES` level controls work directly on the audio hardware and can't be mapped in Mixxx.

Control overview
----------------

.. figure:: ../../_static/controllers/reloop_mixage_overview.svg
   :align: center
   :width: 100%
   :figwidth: 100%
   :alt: Reloop Mixage button overview
   :figclass: pretty-figures

   Reloop Mixage button overview

All mapped controls use MIDI channel #1 (can be changed on the back of the device). Most functions on this controller are quite self-explanatory and mapped in that way (you might want to check the official manual too)

======  =========================================  ==========================================================================================================================================================================  ==============================================================================================================================================================================

> Button  Label                                      Function                                                                                                                                                                    SHIFT function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#  Label                                      Function                                                                                                                                                                    SHIFT function
```
This allows to shrink the column to a minimum. (and not all controls are buttons ;)

======  =========================================  ==========================================================================================================================================================================  ==============================================================================================================================================================================
1       :hwlabel:`-`                               Allows the temporary deceleration (counter-clockwise) of a track                                                                                                            Adjust track key down 
2       :hwlabel:`+`                               Allows the temporary acceleration (clockwise) of a track                                                                                                                    Adjust track key up 

> 3       :hwlabel:`SHIFT`                           By pressing this button all the device's control elemetns recieve a different function. The assignment can be viewed in the SHIFT function column                           -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3       :hwlabel:`SHIFT`                           When this button is pressed all controls have a different function. The assignment can be viewed in the SHIFT function column                           -
```

4       :hwlabel:`LOOP` / :hwlabel:`IN`            Set beatloop start at current play position and activate beatloop or turn it off if currently active                                                                        Set loop in point

> 5       :hwlabel:`-LENGTH+` / :hwlabel:`BEATMOVE`  Turn to halve/double loop length; Turn while pushing down to adjust beatjump size; Press shortly to clear any loop points                                                   Beatjump in or opposed to playback direction. If a loop is active, beatjump the loop in or opposed to playback direction; Press shortly to enter/exit beatloop adjustment mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5       :hwlabel:`-LENGTH+` / :hwlabel:`BEATMOVE`  Turn to halve/double loop length; Turn while pushing down to adjust beatjump size; Press shortly to clear any loop points                                                   Turn to beatjump forward/backward. If a loop is active, move the loop forward/backward; Press shortly to enter/exit beatloop adjustment mode
```

> 6       :hwlabel:`GAIN`                            Preamplication of a track/deck                                                                                                                                              Same as non shift function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6       :hwlabel:`GAIN`                            Preamplication of a track/deck                                                                                                                                              Same as non-shift function
```

> 7       Pitchfader                                 Adjust the pitch or playback speed of the current deck. The LED lights up in the neutral position                                                                           Same as non shift function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7       Pitchfader                                 Adjust the pitch or playback speed of the current deck. The LED lights up in the neutral position                                                                           Same as non-shift function
```

Reviewer: I'm not a native speaker, this just 'feels' correct..
If you decide to pick this, please change the other occurences, too.

8       :hwlabel:`RELOOP` / :hwlabel:`OUT`         Toggle relooping on/off. Button is lit when a loop is active, blinks slowly if there's an inactive loop set and thus reloop is available                                    Set loop out point

> 9       :hwlabel:`FX SEL` / :hwlabel:`MASTER`      Select effect in effect rack N for adjustment. Button is lit if an effect slot is selected                                                                                  Toggle if deck N is sync master

Reviewer 2: added periods at the end of every sentence

> 9       :hwlabel:`FX SEL` / :hwlabel:`MASTER`      Select effect in effect rack N for adjustment. Button is lit if an effect slot is selected.                                                                                  Toggle if deck N is sync leader.

Reviewer: here and below: "effect unit"
```suggestion
9       :hwlabel:`FX SEL` / :hwlabel:`MASTER`      Select effect in effect unit N for adjustment. Button is lit if an effect slot is selected.                                                                                  Toggle if deck N is sync leader.
```
Am I right that units 1 / 2 are assigned by default to deck 1 / 2?

Author: Yes.

12      :hwlabel:`FX ON` / :hwlabel:`KEYLOCK`      Toggle effect rack on/off for deck N                                                                                                                                        Toggle keylock (keep pitch on speed change) on/off
13      :hwlabel:`🔍`                              Toggle to use jog wheel to scroll through deck                                                                                                                              Same as non shift function
14      :hwlabel:`💿`                              Toggle to use jog wheel to scratch deck                                                                                                                                     Same as non shift function
15      Jog wheel                                  Controls various functions depending on the jog wheel mode                                                                                                                  Same as non shift function

> 16      :hwlabel:`⯈⯇` / :hwlabel:`CUE 1`           Beat-sync deck as follower (hold to sync lock)                                                                                                                              If hot cue 1 is set, go to hot cue 1, else set hot cue 1 at current position

Reviewer: I didn't check the mapping, but if that buttons is doing the same as Sync in the GUI it does a one-time beat sync (BPM), and sync lock on longpress. The new explicit Sync Leader control is not mapped, is it?

Author: Is the the sync leader functionality working in 2.4? It was b0rked in 2.3

Reviewer: Yes. It's a different thing than the previous implementation.

Author: > Yes. It's a different thing than the previous implementation.

Sorry. I edited the comment in the meantime. Could you resolve if it's ok for you now?

Reviewer: :+1:

21      :hwlabel:`LOAD` / :hwlabel:`⯈`             Load selected track from library into deck 2; LED lights up if deck is currently playing.                                                                                    Navigate right (open folder).
22      :hwlabel:`HIGH`                            Controls the high EQ.                                                                                                                                                        Same as non-shift function.
23      :hwlabel:`MID`                             Controls the mid EQ.                                                                                                                                                         Same as non-shift function.
24      :hwlabel:`LOW`                             Controls the low EQ.                                                                                                                                                         Same as non-shift function.

> 25      :hwlabel:`🎧` / :hwlabel:`PREV ⯈`          Route deck 1 audio to headphone output.                                                                                                                                      Play preview deck.
> 25      :hwlabel:`🎧` / :hwlabel:`PREV ⏹`          Route deck 2 audio to headphone output.                                                                                                                                      Stop preview deck.

Reviewer: Let's use the standard term Pfl, it's explained in the glossary.
```suggestion
25      :hwlabel:`🎧` / :hwlabel:`PREV ⯈`          Activate term:`PFL <PFL>` for deck 1                                                                                                                                         Play preview deck.
25      :hwlabel:`🎧` / :hwlabel:`PREV ⏹`          Activate term:`PFL <PFL>` for deck 2                                                                                                                                         Stop preview deck.
```

26      Linefader                                  Controls the respective channel's volume.                                                                                                                                    Same as non-shift function.
33      Crossfader                                 Crossfader between channel 1 and channel 2.                                                                                                                                  Same as non-shift function.
======  =========================================  ===========================================================================================================================================================================  ==============================================================================================================================================================================

> The effect buttons and knobs on the left side apply to effect rack 1, the ones on the right to effect rack 2. The numbers from the overview correspond to the product manual and mapping XML file Txx numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The effect buttons and knobs on the left side apply to effect unit 1, the ones on the right to effect unit 2. The numbers from the overview correspond to the product manual and mapping XML file Txx numbers.
```
and maybe add a ref to https://manual.mixxx.org/2.4/en_gb/chapters/effects#effect-units

Jog wheel
---------

> - With the loupe button :hwlabel:`🔍` active: Scroll through the track. While touching the top of the wheel scrolling is three times as fast

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- With :hwlabel:`🔍` button active: Scroll through the track. While touching the top of the wheel scrolling is three times as fast
```

> - With the disc button :hwlabel:`💿` active: Touch the side of the jog wheel to nudge the deck. Touch the top of the jog wheel to scratch (either deck playing or not)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- With :hwlabel:`💿` button active: Touch the side of the jog wheel to nudge the deck. Touch the top of the jog wheel to scratch (either deck playing or not)
```

- With the Beatloop adjust mode active: Adjusts the selected loop point

Beatloop adjust mode
--------------------

When a beatloop has been set, press :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`-LENGTH+` / :hwlabel:`BEATMOVE` to enable beatloop adjust mode. The :hwlabel:`LOOP` / :hwlabel:`IN` and :hwlabel:`RELOOP` / :hwlabel:`OUT` buttons will blink. Now you can:

- Move the entire loop using the jog wheel, adjustment is three times as fast while the top of the jog wheel is touched.
- Press :hwlabel:`LOOP` / :hwlabel:`IN` to shift the loop in point using the jog wheel. The :hwlabel:`LOOP` / :hwlabel:`IN` will blink

> - Press :hwlabel:`RELOOP` / :hwlabel:`OUT` to shift the loop ou point using the jog wheel. The :hwlabel:`RELOOP` / :hwlabel:`OUT` will blink

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Press :hwlabel:`RELOOP` / :hwlabel:`OUT` to shift the loop out point using the jog wheel. The :hwlabel:`RELOOP` / :hwlabel:`OUT` will blink
```

> Press :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`-LENGTH+` / :hwlabel:`BEATMOVE`, the loupe button :hwlabel:`🔍` or disc button :hwlabel:`💿` again to leave betloop adjust mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Press and hold :hwlabel:`SHIFT` + :hwlabel:`-LENGTH+` / :hwlabel:`BEATMOVE`, then press :hwlabel:`🔍` or :hwlabel:`💿` button to leave betloop adjust mode
```
Is this what you mean?

User-adjustable script settings
-------------------------------

The `Reloop-Mixage.scripts.js` controller script provides the following settings:

> -  Scratch behaviour can be changed to a more regular, turntable-like mode by changing the setting `scratchByWheelTouch` to `true`. Note that the jog wheels are not very sensitive to touch though (sensitivity can be adjusted on the back of the controller in the MK1 version).

Reviewer: Let's use the comment from the script:

```suggestion
-  `scratchByWheelTouch` (default `false`): change to `true` to get a more regular, turntable-like mode, i.e. scratch by touching the jog wheel instead of having to toggle the disc button. Note that the jog wheels are not very sensitive to touch though (sensitivity can be adjusted on the back of the controller in the MK1 version).
```

> -  Scratch speed can be adjusted by changing the setting `scratchTicksPerRevolution`. Smaller values "scratch more" of the track, larger values "scratch less".

Reviewer: same here:
```suggestion
-  `scratchTicksPerRevolution` (default `620`): Change this to adjust the scratch speed. Smaller values mean "faster", higher mean "slower".
```

> -  Jog wheel scroll speed can be adjusted by changing the setting `jogWheelScrollSpeed`. The higher, the faster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  `jogWheelScrollSpeed` (default `1.0`): Adjust this to change the jog wheel scroll speed. The higher the values, the faster.
```

Reloop Mixage
=============

The Reloop Mixage line of controllers contains 2-channel DJ controller. It offers two jog wheels, line faders, a cross-fader, controls for looping, effects, equalizers and gain controls. The Interface Edition version comes with an integrated soundcard, headphone connection and microphone input and exists in version MK1 (unmarked) and MK2 (marked on back of device).

.. figure:: ../../_static/controllers/reloop_mixage_top.jpg
   :align: center
   :figwidth: 100%
   :alt: Reloop Mixage IE (top view)
   :figclass: pretty-figures

>    Reloop Mixage top view (© Reloop, used with permission).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Reloop Mixage top view (© Reloop, used with permission)
```
:wink:

22      :hwlabel:`HIGH`                            Controls the high EQ.                                                                                                                                                        Same as non-shift function.
23      :hwlabel:`MID`                             Controls the mid EQ.                                                                                                                                                         Same as non-shift function.
24      :hwlabel:`LOW`                             Controls the low EQ.                                                                                                                                                         Same as non-shift function.

> 25      :hwlabel:`🎧` / :hwlabel:`PREV ⯈`          Activate term:`PFL <PFL>` for deck 1                                                                                                                                         Play preview deck.
> 25      :hwlabel:`🎧` / :hwlabel:`PREV ⏹`          Activate term:`PFL <PFL>` for deck 2                                                                                                                                         Stop preview deck.

Reviewer: whoops, my suggestion was missing the leading :
```suggestion
25      :hwlabel:`🎧` / :hwlabel:`PREV ⯈`          Activate :term:`PFL <PFL>` for deck 1                                                                                                                                        Play preview deck.
25      :hwlabel:`🎧` / :hwlabel:`PREV ⏹`          Activate :term:`PFL <PFL>` for deck 2                                                                                                                                        Stop preview deck.
```
